welcome to slash forward in this episode
we're going to relish in ancient
traditions involving ritual sacrifice
with the 1985 documentary the dark power
if you're into extravagant quick play
this is your channel
let's get to it we open on a title
scroll that will skip
don't worry they cover all this
information several times over
throughout the first half of the film
and then we move on to the southeastern
united states where a camera crew crowds
around john cody to learn about his
culture but instead are witnesses to his
untimely death awkward we learned
through voiceover they were working on a
docu-series about recorded wills
and mr cody was their subject it then
transitions to cletus heading out into
the woods
well armed but pursued by a dark power
he's confronted by a ragtag pack of good
boys
and makes the mistake of initiating
their chase instinct thus transforming
his lily white ass in their eyes
from friend to rump roast this is where
we meet ranger gerard whit master and
ruler of the animal kingdom
after handling that he heads out to his
old friend's property where the
beneficiary of the estate laments his
grandfather's insistence on sharing the
land for religious ritual however since
his intent was never officially recorded
he instead plans to turn his new land
parcel into a [ __ ] in passive income
gerard then goes on a date with the
journalist mary and hits all his best
lines
you know about my whip mm-hmm all about
it
but this is a business date and mary
thirsts for knowledge about the toltecs
they're a tribe that predates the aztecs
but oral histories are best recorded for
posterity so after demonstrating that he
uses his whip for
everything that he's able gerrard
recounts for them the legend of the
toltecs
as he knows it they were worshipers of a
dark power that supposedly culminates at
cody's property on totem hill
why even his whip is imbued with
remnants of the four sacred lands
representative of the four powers and
we're left to wonder if that'll become
relevant later on
we then cut to beth who needs a place to
stay while school's in session she's
introduced by lin played by a young
julia roberts to mary who tells her
about a prime spot
way off campus that's only mildly
haunted
soon they're filling the house with
nubile young female bodies when a
reluctant tammy arrives
nervous about the ghostly rumors i'm not
from this county how am i supposed to
know about this place
and they can't haunt you if you don't
know about them she's introduced to
susan's crotch
and then given the full tour which
culminates with a laundry room full of
ancient artifacts and ceremonial daggers
things sour however when tammy runs
across lin the house bigot and she gets
all worked up that they have the
audacity to invite tammy to live with
them
knowing her propensity for overt racism
then back to thirsty mary at the
courthouse where she runs across her
favorite silver grizzly bear and invites
him to join her in her research
here tad fills us in that cody had
wanted the bodies of the four sorcerers
exhumed and buried at sea
but they were never found so he stayed
on the property and devoted his life to
performing rituals to contain their dark
power and gerard says yeah i already
knew all that because he's one of those
kinds of guys
since there can't possibly be any more
story to talk about this must be the
part of the film where stuff starts
happening
sure enough susan heads to the kitchen
to microwave her pre-workout ribeye when
slick jimmy saunters in
we learn that craig is actually lin's
brother and their new roommate
invited to live with them by lynn as a
passive-aggressive way to drive them all
crazy this is further demonstrated when
beth arrives home intent on relaxing but
finds the tub occupied by paige as she
enjoys her post-workout bath beers
already on edge by how crowded the joint
is craig pushes her over the edge when
he wanders in and diverts his eyes but
only in their direction he also refuses
to leave until susan gives him a swirly
resulting in him reaching climax and
taking away his only reason for sticking
around
oh wait one last piece as mary and tadd
do their math homework
they realize that tonight is the
designated night of the return of the
dark powers
cool cool so now we know the evil days
are upon us as we head back and find
craig having a rager with two other guys
they work at being as annoying as
possible when they're interrupted by a
knock at the door
they assume it's all part of the plan
until they start receiving arrows into
their bodies
the boys confirm that they're surrounded
and craig puts up an ineffectual defense
but still manages to make it into the
yard
here he's held in place so they can get
him hooked up with some arrows so he
doesn't feel left
out since allen can't convince the girls
of what's happening he runs out to
craig's car with lin
the car won't start forcing them into
the woods and they make it to the boat
but don't get away
fast enough as a result allen has his
face manually readjusted lynn makes it
close enough to the house for her
screams to penetrate the silence of the
night air
drawing out susan and resulting in her
being awkwardly drowned in a shallow
pool
the sorcerers then make it inside and
beth hears everything but assumes it all
to be related to the party so she tries
to ignore it but then she remembers that
they don't have renters insurance yet
and she needs to protect her mom's
silverware
tammy ventures out to retrieve the goods
for her friend and then lets out the
first scream that is clearly not party
related
this fully draws beth from her room and
she assumes the intruders are pranking
her but quickly learns that this is not
the case
the girls find themselves in a jam
fighting off the undead from all sides
when gerard shows up with his legendary
whip
and if you were concerned he may elect
to use it sparingly you're in for quite
the treat
although it does prove ineffective at
close range tammy turns the tide when
tackled into the laundry room where she
puts the ceremonial daggers to good use
inserting them into her attackers
finding their rotting flesh easily gives
way to the gentle caress of the blade
three of them run off to melt in the
yard but the final one shatters the
blade that was intended for him but then
gerard wakes back up and now it's time
for a whip showdown
he warms up by showing who's most adept
at whipping the air before drawing first
blood he then moves in
aggressively backing his foe up the
stairs until he disarms
the demon before disarming the demon and
then he sends it straight back to hell
as the sun rises gerard shares an inner
monologue with his old friend
the afternoon and evening of my life is
still to be lived
after noon that seems generous
and just a reminder that i have a
website where you can support the
channel through donations
any donation earns you a link to a
10-minute review of toby hooper's life
force and any support is greatly
appreciated a special thank you to ryan
your generous donation much like
unhinged here's another film that gets
all of its pesky exposition out of the
way by having its characters say things
to each other in huge blocks of dialogue
however it balances this out with a
fairly action-packed third act
and of course whip choreography that is
advanced even by today's standards
if you enjoyed the video i'd love for
you to become a part of the channel by
subscribing
thanks for watching